README.md, before:

# Scientific Analysis Code Template

This is the analysis code and datasets used for running Lagrangian particle tracking simulations in the Northern California Current System. 

## Usage

The primary Lagrangian particle tracking simulations are ran using [plankton_tracking.py](scripts/plankton_tracking.py). Run this script by:

1. `git clone https://github.com/andrew-s28/plankton-particle-tracking.git`

2. `uv run --script scripts/plankton_tracking.py`

      :warning: The [local install](scripts/parcels/) of [OceanParcels](https://github.com/OceanParcels/Parcels) is necessary to run this notebook since the fix implemented in [#1886](https://github.com/OceanParcels/Parcels/pull/1886) is not yet published on PyPi. If or when it is, this local install can be removed.
      
      :warning: A C compiler is necessary to run this script. See below for install instructions.

## Installing a C Code Compiler

OceanParcels requires a C compiler (such as [GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org/)) in the path to run - i.e., `gcc --version` should successfully run from the command line. If using a Linux distro (or even WSL), this is straightforward: enjoy the ease with which `sudo apt install build-essential` handles things perfectly!

On Windows, however, I find the install of GCC to be a bit more of a pain. To simplify, I use `conda` to install GCC into the base environment using the [m2w64-toolchain](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/m2w64-toolchain) package and then add the library to the path. Something like this (for PowerShell) should get things up and running:

- `conda install -n base m2w64-toolchain`
- `$Env.PATH = C:\Users\user\miniconda3\Library\mingw-w64\bin`

This also has the advantage of being able to use GCC globally from the Windows command line after installation.

Commit message:

add description of required model files to README

README.md, after:

# Plankton Particle Tracking in the Northern California Current System

This is the analysis code and datasets used for running Lagrangian particle tracking simulations in the Northern California Current System, specifically targeted at locations coincident with plankton sampling lines such as the [Newport Hydrographic Line](https://hmsc.oregonstate.edu/lab/newport-hydrographic-line-ecosystem-studies). 

## Usage

The primary Lagrangian particle tracking simulations are ran using [plankton_tracking.py](scripts/plankton_tracking.py). This script is designed to work with velocity fields from a [CROCO model](https://www.croco-ocean.org/). These model files are *far* too large to include in a repository. Set the path to model files [within the script](https://github.com/andrew-s28/plankton-particle-tracking/blob/main/scripts/plankton_tracking.py#L29) before running. 

Run this script by:

1. `git clone https://github.com/andrew-s28/plankton-particle-tracking.git`

2. `uv run --script scripts/plankton_tracking.py`

      :warning: The [local install](scripts/parcels/) of [OceanParcels](https://github.com/OceanParcels/Parcels) is necessary to run this notebook since the fix implemented in [#1886](https://github.com/OceanParcels/Parcels/pull/1886) is not yet published on PyPi. If or when it is, this local install can be removed.

      :warning: A C compiler is necessary to run this script. See below for install instructions.

## Installing a C Code Compiler

OceanParcels requires a C compiler (such as [GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org/)) in the path to run - i.e., `gcc --version` should successfully run from the command line. If using a Linux distro (or even WSL), this is straightforward: enjoy the ease with which `sudo apt install build-essential` handles things perfectly!

On Windows, however, I find the install of GCC to be a bit more of a pain. To simplify, I use `conda` to install GCC into the base environment using the [m2w64-toolchain](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/m2w64-toolchain) package and then add the library to the path. Something like this (for PowerShell) should get things up and running:

- `conda install -n base m2w64-toolchain`
- `$Env.PATH = C:\Users\user\miniconda3\Library\mingw-w64\bin`

This also has the advantage of being able to use GCC globally from the Windows command line after installation.
